Uh, yeah, ask him about the weather or how is the trip up here, just anything to get him to talk.
Or her to talk.
Now you're recording. Now press pause at the same time. Now you're recording. Now press pause. Now press stop.
And play.
And always make sure the red record lights on, otherwise you're not doing anything.
Right now it's recording.
The red lights on is recording. Red light is not on, it is not recording.
Okay.
Testing, one, two, three, four. Testing. This is a science fiction radio show. Testing, one, two, three, four, five, six. Testing.
Testing.
About people with unusual lifestyles and they interviewed me nonstop on TV.
Oh, we're in 45 minutes and then spent another 45 minutes going around the place of close-ups on various interesting things in the collection.
I don't know what that'll all be boiled down to.
By the way, I've always been asked if somebody would move.
Did your collection open in a hurry?
Okay, test. Very good.
When did you first get interested or become exposed to science fiction?
Well, I'm afraid I wasted the first nine years of my life.
In October 1926, I was passing by a newsstand and the issue of amazing stories for that month jumped right off the stand, grabbed hold of me, said,
take me home little boy, you will love me and it will become a way of life.
And in those early days, there was just the one magazine a month and it was like a man in a desert who sees an oasis.
You know, you head for any drop of water you can find.
I began combing the magazine markets, looking at the mundane periodicals in Liberty magazine.
Occasionally, I found something new by H.G. Wells or Sax Romer with his Fumand Choo, super scientific villain.
And in the pages of Argus, I discovered that this magazine, besides having westerns and romance and air war and whatnot,
that they generally had some science fiction going.
Some of the pioneer authors of Ray Cummings and R.F. Starsell and Victor Russo,
there was a lot of Burroughs, Mars and Venus and Palucidar and those, and also in Blue Book Magazine.
By 1930, we had about seven magazines.
We had the amazing Quarterlies in addition to the Monthlies and Science Wonder had come along,
which also had a Quarterly publication and Air Wonder.
And there was astounding stories of super science started up, which is still going today under the modified title,
Analog Science Fiction, and that original amazing from April 1926 is still being published and in my collection.
By about 1929, rather mundane mother had begun to be somewhat worried about my collecting instinct.
She encountered my magazine and said,
Well, my dear mother lived till nearly 94 and was in my own home at the end of her life.
Home was now four stories, 17 rooms, three garages in which you couldn't park a toothpick
because we eliminated the cars from them and put in shelves and that is totaled with the science fiction collections.
Matter of fact, whenever I see a garage sale nowadays, I buy another garage.
I have two extra garages that are filling up around Los Angeles.
So the collection has grown from that one single magazine back in October 1926.
Here I am on the verge of my 55th anniversary in the field.
Now there are 300,000 magazines and books and manuscripts and props from movies and artwork and stills.
I stop at nothing.
I even try to get space stamps from all over the world.
It wouldn't be any stretch of the imagination to say that you have probably the most complete collection of science fiction anywhere.
Well, that's what it is.
I've been on both sides of the Iron Curtain.
I've been upside down in Tasmania.
I've been a thousand miles from the North Pole.
I've been in Hungary and Czechoslovakia and East Germany.
I've been to Japan and if there's any greater collection, it must be underground or well hidden.
Naturally, I'm so intensely interested in the subject matter that I seek out collectors everywhere in the world.
There are maybe half a dozen of us who have equal collections of magazines, as to say about 99% complete.
There are certainly collectors with enormous numbers of books,
but I go beyond that into autographs of the authors and the motion picture people.
I go have Baylor Lugosi would sign Count Dracula and Frederick March, you've got an Academy Award for Jekyll and Hyde.
He was signed for me both as Jekyll and as Hyde and I got Boris Karloff to sign as the Frankenstein monster and the mummy.
And so, last 50 years I've wound up with 125,000 stills from all the fantastic movies ever made in the world.
And 18,000 lobby cards and uncounted thousands of clippings.
I get Hollywood Reporter and Variety and Publishers Weekly and I constantly cut out everything concerning science fiction and fantasy.
And file it away.
Did that lead to your involvement with the magazine that you edited?
Well, you've got the past tense on that. It's very much alive and well.
In the last 23 years I've done 179 issues.
I don't even think of it as editing famous monsters of film land magazine.
It's pretty much of a one man show.
I virtually write everything in every issue of it.
I figured out at the rate it's going that in 1984 we'll reach issue number 200.
This is the great thing about tapes. You can just stop for a second.
No problem.
Dude, which of the levels in his microphone that's not even reaching the red on your head?
Oh, it's close, Earl.
This will be copied and equalized.
How are we doing it?
It's good enough to go over here.
We've got some electronic wizardry gadgets that we put this through before it actually gets edited.
Test.
Okay.
What I'm going to do now is get over to the... Bill, do you want to ask some questions on collections?
Bill is our resident collector.
Yeah, whenever it's convenient.
Okay.
Let's see, I'm getting my train of thought back on the track here.
You're considered, if not the first, one of the original science fiction fans.
Not to go into any great length, but how did fandom get started?
Well, I believe fandom got started through the readers' departments that we discovered each other,
began writing letters. By the time I was 15, I was corresponding with 116 boys and one girl.
Girls were as rare as pterodactyl's teeth 50 years ago in the science fiction reading world.
So through correspondence, the notion came up of clubs that could operate through the mail.
I created one, the Boys Science Fiction Club, in 1930.
Ten cents a month dues, that would postage, which is two cents to move a book around the country in those days,
or three magazines for that price.
So you joined, you sent me a photograph of yourself, a hardcover book,
since there were no paperbacks yet, or three issues of a magazine containing a serial.
Then as the library and I mailed these all around the country, and actually the other parts of the world,
I had science fiction correspondence in England, Russia, and Hungary and Ireland,
that I think Australia also, I think of at the present time.
And a lot of those 117 boys and girls, and I got involved with some science fiction authors,
and since I was born in Hollywood and used to hang around the studios and get autographs,
that occurred to me that I could also get autographs through the mail of science fiction writers and artists.
And then I began to get information from them.
I thought I'd like to share this with my correspondent friends.
At first I used carbon paper and would get half a dozen illegible sheets of news,
and then I was introduced to the glories of Hectograph in about 1931,
put out a little two-page science fiction fanzine called The Meteor,
and reproduced the autographs of Ray Cummings and Edmund Hamilton,
who were two of the big pioneer authors of the day.
And that little Hectograph de Faer was seen by Julia Schwartz and Mortimer Weisinger,
who for many years have been in charge of Batman and Superman comics.
But way back then in 1932 they said,
well, we're here on the east coast where we can see the editors and publishers
and a lot of the science fiction authors, and you're out there in Hollywood
where you can cover such science fiction film activity as there is.
Why don't we combine our knowledge and make an actual little Mimeograph magazine.
So in 1932, February, the first real science fiction fanzine was born, the Time Traveler.
Okay.
Things...
I'm going to jump-jump topic here.
Aside from your involvement in fanzines and fandom,
you've also been an agent for several science fiction authors, haven't you?
Well, again, that's not past tense.
Are an agent.
After three years, five months, and 29 days of World War II,
I was kind of wary of having bosses,
and I looked around for something I could do where I'd be my own man,
and I decided that life had trended me toward being a literary agent.
I would try my hand and talons at that.
So I started out at the age of 32.
The first year I was a science fiction specialist,
I made $1,075 in commissions, spent $1,025 in postage,
and wound up with a big, fat $50.
So I would have been out of business before I hardly began,
except things began to pick up at a quantum rate starting with year two.
I got AE Van Vogt, one of the stellar writers of all time in the science fiction field,
as a client.
He's been with me nonstop for 33 years.
And at one time and another, I've represented Raymond F. Jones.
I was at the time that his book reached the screen as this island, Earth.
At the present time, I'm representing 140 writers.
I'm an agent for the estate of Hugo Gernsback,
who, of course, initiated science fiction in this country,
and I carry on for Frank R. Paul's widow.
Paul was the original artist who dominated the field for about the first ten years.
And then I have upcoming authors like Donald Glute.
He was 18 weeks on the bestseller list with his novelization of The Empire Strikes Back.
And now once a year, he's doing an original screenplay.
There's a character in Japan called Ultraman.
Ultraman has been very popular on TV for about 20 years.
And Ultraman is going to have an American version, a total American cast director,
production, everything USA, and Don Glute be writing that script each year.
So at the present time, with my right hand,
I'm representing 140 science fiction and fantasy authors.
With my left hand, I write famous monsters magazine every month.
With my middle hand, I go out to universities and lecture
and occasionally do a cameo in a movie.
The most recent one was The Howling.
And there's one coming up, you might say, as typecasting.
I played a curator of the last museum on Earth after World War III,
as destroyed civilization.
That's a picture called Aftermath.
And I rush around this world going off to Russia next year
with about 40 science fiction personalities.
We'll go to Moscow, Kiev, and Leningrad.
And then I'll go to Greece for the first time in my life.
Science fiction has taken me all around this world,
upside down in Tasmania,
and a thousand miles from the North Pole and behind the Iron Curtain,
and to Japan.
I'm now in contact with two science fiction clubs in China.
So I imagine before my life story is through that I'll find myself in Shanghai and Kwong Tung.
Bill?
Okay.
Yeah.
I have to go pretty quick. I have two questions coming up.
Sure.
Yeah.
Let me. Were you in Kentucky Fried Movie?
Yes.
Okay.
I thought your mother let... did she know you saw that?
Yeah, that's...
Mr. Ackerman, I have a two-part question.
Number one, you have written science fiction because I've read the stories.
The first part of the question would be why you didn't continue as an author.
And secondly, I can't think of any other field where there's such a unique and intimate relationship between fans and writers.
I wonder why that is so.
Well, when I was a kid, when I was in high school, I edited the high school newspaper and the annual publication.
I carried on much the same way in college.
And I firmly believed that I would grow up to be a science fiction writer.
But when I got around to writing, I searched my mind and I was a little chagrin to find that I wasn't going to be another H.G. Wells or O.F. Stapledon
or Arthur C. Clarke.
I guess I had to set two grandiose ideals for myself.
I just expected somehow or other I got to be 20, 25 or 30 that I would be bubbling over with books like Childhood's End
and The Shape of Things to Come and The Best of Heinlein and so on.
And I found... I say I searched my mind and found that I just didn't have these book-length novels in me.
On the other hand, I did seem to excel in the O. Henry type of short, short story.
And I finally wrote the world's shortest published science fiction story.
Ray Bradbury, whose first story I had edited and published in 1938, had called me up some years later in a great state of excitement.
He said, For you, I just sold a story for one dollar a word.
Every little A and the but or hum hum.
Well, I kind of mentally gave up.
I thought, Oh my God, a dollar a word.
I would never reach that altitude.
But 1973, I think I was asked to do a best of the year anthology.
And then looking at all the stories that year, I found a real cute one that I think was just three words long.
So I thought, Well, I can top that.
I can do one that's two words long.
Let's call it World War III and the story is the end.
So after I mentally wrote that, well, it's no use stopping the air.
My mind's well going, write the one word story and be done with it.
And I came up with something I've forgotten in the meantime.
I said, No, no use stopping there.
Somebody will come up with a story that is one letter of the alphabet long.
That better be me.
So I wrote that story and I was paid $100 for a single letter of the alphabet.
I went on to sell the story four more times each time for $100.
So I got $500 for a single letter of the alphabet.
Of course, I retained the translation rights for the story and the movie rights and the comic book rights.
And I very sneakily copied right at the other 26 letters of the alphabet so that nobody could use them for science fiction stories.
And since a normal size word, as an average word is about five letters in length,
in effect I've collected about $2,500 for one word, which perhaps should be again as a world record.
But I say I'm just searching myself, found that apparently I was not a novelist but a short story writer.
And I've done enough of those to have at least one collection way back in 1935.
I think it was.
I collaborated with the Dan Venge's current guest of honor, Catherine Moore, and wrote Nymph of Darkness.
And you were asking why there's such a liaison between the authors and the fans.
I imagine because most authors start out as fans like myself, I remember very well what it was to go to the first world science fiction in 1939,
admiring Ray Cummings and Heldsberg de Kamp and Manly Wade Wellman and seeing Virgil Findley.
And then myself eventually becoming somewhat in the same genre with them.
So I think that Van Vogt and Ray Bradbury and Arthur C. Clark all perfectly well remember their humble beginnings when they were writing for fanzines.
I've got to go, David.
Thank you, sir. It was a pleasure to meet you.
Okay.
Mr. Ackerman, you're known as quite a fan.
But to, okay.
Let him go.
Okay, you're known as quite a fan, but to us collectors, you're also known as the ultimate collector.
When did you start collecting science fiction and how did, what was your first goal and how has that goal changed as far as what you're trying to collect?
Well, in October 1926 when I first saw Science Fiction magazine, I was only nine years old and I don't believe I realized the periodicity of publications.
I guess I thought it was some kind of a one-time phenomenon and there would never be another amazing story.
And it wasn't until some months later in 1928 that I saw amazing stories again.
Then I caught on to the fact that if I watched the newsstands carefully, about every four weeks there would be more manna from heaven.
So I read the magazine so quickly that there was nothing coming along for another month that I would reread the stories.
And so I hung on to the magazines because they were very precious to me and before I knew it, my mother said I had 27 of them.
And by about 1930 I probably had around a hundred of them.
And one mad moment in my life during the Depression, my parents persuaded me to sell my magazines in order to finance new ones
because 25 cents was kind of tough to come by when men were starving on the streets trying to make a living selling apples for a nickel.
Well, I did sell my collections such as it was about 1930.
And before their very eyes my parents saw me becoming weak and wand and listless and lost my appetite.
And about 48 hours was all they could take of that.
So I said, OK, OK, you know, go and buy your magazines back if they mean so much to you.
And from that day to this I have never passed by a magazine.
I just buy every single science fiction fantasy magazine as fast as they are published,
have a standing order for every paperback to be sent to me, go through publishers weekly every seven days,
and locus and any source whatsoever that instances fantasy magazines and books and send off for all of them.
And then I go through catalogs from all over the world and constantly mining the past.
You would think that someday you'd say, well, I've got it all, but there just seems to be no end to it.
A perfect example.
I went to the World Science Fiction Convention down in Australia, walked a half a block from my hotel,
and saw a science fiction book in a window.
And I said, well, I don't have it.
I suppose it was published here in Australia.
But I went in and I found it was published in New York seven years earlier.
And despite every review I'd read and every list I'd looked at, I hadn't known of it until that moment.
So I feel my collection is incomplete if someone who's looking at it suddenly says, oh, don't you have?
And I've got 300,000 things, but I don't have this one particular magazine or book.
So I guess I'll have to get it.
How has, where you've housed the collection through the years changed from your humble beginnings until now?
Well, started out in San Francisco.
I had, down in the basement, my dad built me a little den.
And I was able to keep everything in one very small room.
Then when I moved back to Los Angeles where I was born, I lived with my maternal grandparents.
And they had a rather large apartment plus three garages.
That's where I started filling up garages before I knew it.
They were full.
And in the hallway in my maternal grandparents' home, I began stacking books up to the ceiling.
And they gave me one bedroom.
And pretty soon it was difficult even to get into bed because it was totally surrounded.
I remember Life Magazine came to me 30 years ago.
1951 took a photo of me in that bedroom.
And in 1951, I finally moved into my first home.
That had 13 rooms and three garages.
And when I totaled that, and I really mean totaled it, used as many drawers as weren't absolutely necessary for clothing.
They had books and magazines and put them under the beds.
And we didn't need all the bathrooms, so I filled those.
And finally, when my wife, the university professor and science fiction translator, came home and looked in the refrigerator one day.
And found the food was gone, replaced by reels of science fiction movies.
She realized the end had come for that home.
So for a couple of years, we lived in an apartment while I used a 13-room home and three garages totally for my collection.
We started all over again eight years ago with a four-story, 17-room home in the usual three garages.
And now that's bursting at the seams, and I've added two garages to them renting around town.
Unfortunately, the mayor of Los Angeles has come to my rescue.
He discovered me, came out to the house, had four librarians come and look at everything,
and they estimated there are approximately 300,000 pieces in the collection.
And the city of Los Angeles in the near future is going to create an actual museum.
It won't just be a wing of the library or anything of that sort, but an actual, bonafide science fiction museum.
But already when you're three blocks away, the structure of it will tell the story.
It'll just say, hey, that's got to be the museum.
And the grandson of Edgar Rice Burroughs has already indicated to me when the museum exists
that he'd be very happy to have an Edgar Rice Burroughs wing in it
and make all of the first editions available in manuscripts and the artwork by J. Allen, St. John, and others.
And I think that Hollywood will very much get into the act once it exists.
And in addition to the props I've been able to acquire on my own, like Baila Lugosi's Dracula Cave and Lon Cheney Seniors,
Makeup Kit and Life Masks of Karloff and Peter Lorre and John Caradine and Vincent Price
and many of the animated monsters from King Kong and Harryhausen films that I imagine the Star Wars people
and Alien and so on, they will be all quick to contribute because everybody will want to be represented
in something that is available to the public seven days a week, people for all over the world
to come and see something like Disneyland and Magic Castle and Universal Tour and so on.
Is this something that the City of Los Angeles will sponsor entirely?
Well, I think it'll be in two parts.
About the 15th of September I'm going to go down to the mayor's office.
They tell me that they have found a benefactor who is going to create a cultural center and make the museum a centerpiece of it.
It'll be one thing just to move it out of my home.
They estimate it'll take $125,000 just to move it to its final resting place.
And surely it costs multi-millions of dollars for the museum itself.
And I don't want to just froze them the day I give it away. That's it. It never grows.
I hope that 200 years after I'm gone that it will still be up to date that all the magazines and books and posters and everything will be added.
I think the City feels its responsibility will be to create the housing for it originally.
And then they hope to institute what they call a support committee.
They're going to invite Robert Block, A.E. Van Vogt, Ray Bradbury, Steven Spielberg, Steven King, George Lucas, John Landis,
maybe way over there in Sri Lanka, Arthur C. Clarke, all the independently wealthy science fiction practitioners
to see if they would like to pitch in. For instance, George Lucas, I think, gave something like a million and a half recently to the university where he had graduated.
So some of these high-powered, financially set people will get in the act and contribute.
They'll be the sponsoring committee to make it possible to go on adding to it.
I would like to see a theater in conjunction with it where you'll be seeing all the classic movies constantly
and to have a fund that I might mastermind as the curator to purchase fine artwork
and something we should have in such a collection.
For instance, the first edition of Frankenstein, which is rather difficult to come by because it wasn't a single book.
It was three books. And I think at the present time, I know of a set that's around 4,500.
And something like the autograph of Edgar Allen Poe ought to be in the collection.
Fortunately, I do have Welles' autograph because I saw him in person and shook hands with him.
And I've been able to acquire the signature of Mary Shelley, who wrote Frankenstein and have a letter by Jules Verne.
But these really costly things is going to have to be people like those I just instanced that will be able to finance it.
Okay. That's all I have.
I remember reading through the magazines and whatnot, your efforts to get all this.
The museum started so there would be a permanent place to collect this.
When you get it all moved out of your 17 room house, you see actual walls in the house.
Are you going to start at the first spot?
Book one.
Start filling it up again.
Well, I really won't need a 17 room home anymore.
I'll be 65 in a few months.
Before I turn around, I'll be 70.
Obviously nearer the end of my life than the beginning.
So we'll kind of cool it and get a more modest home for the last years of our life.
But I'll always want a guest room.
And I think I'm always going to keep several hundred really favorite things around me.
Best books.
Your wife must have been very understanding through these years.
Well, fortunately, she was a science fiction fan all of her life before she met up with me.
Only she was a fan in French and German.
And when she came to this country around 33 years ago,
she gravitated toward becoming a book clerk.
And one day I walked up to her a whole stack of books to buy.
And she said, I mean, I wait on you, sir.
And that was her fatal mistake.
Been doing so ever since.
May I get you to sign my...
Sure.
Your autograph is gonna be...